>> Brian Holt: So
we're gonna talk about React State now.
So so far, there's no
statefulness to this app, right?
If you look at this, we've just
taken data, and we just display it.
There's nothing happening.
There's no interaction, right?
And I'll say first of all that
state is the enemy of all apps.
In the sense that, if you have a bug, it's
almost always a function of state, right?
That you have some state
somewhere going haywire.
>> Brian Holt: So React specifically tries
to address this by reducing the amount
of places that you can modify state.
And by kind of tying one hand behind your
back, you're helping yourself out a lot.
And this goes back to my analogy of-
>> Brian Holt: Or
assertion that, if you see a bug on a page
with React, you know where to start.
And the reason for that is the only
thing that can modify the state of
a component is the component itself.
Nothing else, no parent,
no child, no external forces.
There's no sideways
modification of state in React.
That if you have a problem with state, the
only place it could have originated from
is within the component itself.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
going back to React State.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
the way that React limits
its ability to have bugs,
maybe just limit the surface
area where you can have bugs.
It says, if you want to change the state,
it must happen in the component itself.
>> Brian Holt: So if I have
like a child component, so for example,
if I have state inside of search, right?
ShowCard cannot modify
the state in search.
If we have a problem with search,
right, and something's going wrong
with the state inside of search.
It definitely didn't come from ShowCard,
because ShowCard has no ability to reach
into its parent and modify its state.
It didn't come from client app,
which is what's including it.
Because client app cannot reach
into search and modify its state.
The only problem that it can
have if it's a state problem
comes from search itself.
>> Brian Holt: Right?
And another peculiar way of doing
things that react that's kind of,
I wouldn't say pioneered, but certainly
has pioneered on the front end space.
So we have search, and search passes data
down into ShowCard via props, right?
But notice ShowCard doesn't
pass anything back up.
And that's by design, and it's on purpose,
and there's actually really
no way to do it, right?
So if I have something in ShowCard
that needs to get to search,
there's no way to push data up.
Data only flows down.
This is called one way data flow.
So if you hear the term
as applied to React,
and now is being applied to Ember and
some of these other libraries.
This is the idea of one way data flow that
data only flows down and never flows up.
So what happens if I have data inside of
ShowCard that search needs to know about?
Well, the way that you deal with that is
you take the data out of ShowCard and
you put it in search.
And then you pass it down into ShowCard,
right?
So basically, if you have two components
that need to share some sort of amount
of data, the common ancestor is
where that data is going to live.
So if I had another thing called,
I don't know, ratings, right?
And both of them needed data,
then it would have to live
inside of search, right?
Because there's no way to push
into siblings or push it up,
it only flows down.
This will become more concrete as we
actually write code with this, but
just know that that's what's happening.
>> Brian Holt: So
you might ask yourself, well,
what happens if I have a button that needs
to modify the state of its parent, right?
So I have a button that lives in a form.
And the form is a child of some
parent greater form, right?
Cuz that happens, right?
That's obviously a real case
that we cannot side step.
Well, the answer is we basically say,
okay child, here is a function.
Call this function with
the data that you get, and
then I will modify my own save personally.
So basically,
you have the child that says, hey parent,
I called your callback function with
this data cuz I had some event.
Now it's your problem, right?
I'm not gonna modify your state.
You modify your own state.
Well this will become more apparent
again as we write these sort of things.
But for right now,
we're going to go to search JS.
And we're going to make search
JS start having a bit of
state.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
So I'm in search JS right now.
And what I'm gonna do here is, inside
of search, before the pre-load part,
I'm going to add a header.
>> Brian Holt: And
I'm going to give it an h1 with svideo.
>> Brian Holt: Come
on.
>> Brian Holt: And
an input with type='text' and
placeholder='Search'.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
all I did was put a header on the page.
>> Speaker 2: Creation,
I know we haven't gotten to Redux yet.
But does the paradigm
change once we get there?
Or can we think about it the same way?
>> Brian Holt: Nope, it changes.
>> Speaker 2: And after you, sorry, no.
That's a response to someone
else, never mind.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Speaker 2: Carry
on.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
we put this header on the page.
And if we save that,
go back over here, and refresh.
Everything broke,
cuz I stopped my server again.
It should just have, anyway
>> Brian Holt: Refresh, okay, so now
I have a nice looking header on the page.
>> Brian Holt: What did I,
that's the other thing I had to do.
Is I have to put that inside of a div,
yep.
So that your preload shows,
just put that inside of a div.
>> Brian Holt: Cuz
we don't want those necessarily to
be siblings for styling reasons.
Cuz used Flexbox, cuz I was lazy.
>> Brian Holt: That's
the real reason for that.
Okay, so yeah, if you put inside of this
div, then you should still have your nice
looking styling.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So you have the search
box on here.
You can type things in it.
But it's one of those things,
like if a tree falls in the forest,
does it make a sound if no one was there?
No one's listening to the events
coming off this input.
No one's keeping track of it.
So this is just literally an input box
in the page that no one cares about.